Now we'll go ahead and comment this out and then afterwards we'll talk about another kind of interesting
behavior that comes with working with blocks scoping or block bindings.
And that is referred to sometimes as the PDZ worthy.
Tim poolhall dead zone and it's kind of a dramatic name but it's really not that bad.
All it means is that you can access variables until after you've declared them.
So in this case what I'm going to do is write this out variables until after being declared and then
I'm going to illustrate it to you as something really simple.
Like for example a console out logs will just cancel out log value.
And then I'll make less value equals can.
And then after that you're going to see I get an error.
The value is not defined.
So in other words I can't get access to the variable until after the execution flows over this variable.
So in other words if I come in this out and then I'll copy paste it right here and then after that I'll
comment back in like so and you'll see that it actually prints out can.
So in other words whenever the javascript engine reads a variable it either hoist it to the top of the
scope or puts it in the temporal dead zone.
And that just means that you can't access it until after you flow over it after the execution flows
over it.
Even if they're in the same scope which in this case would be the global scope.
It doesn't matter.
So any operations that require me to use this variable needs to be placed after it not before it.
And even if I put it in something like a nested block scope like so once again I would still need to
put the cancel out log before instead of after.
And if I try to put it after Let's try and copy and paste this and then Common's it back in common this
one out you're going to see that once again it throws an error because it's in the temporal dead zone
and you can't access it until after it's been declared.
So this would work but this would not work.
And this also applies symmetrically to the conc to variables as well.